[MUSIC]
Since we have SQLite3 actually provided to
us with
the build of Python which we installed
earlier when
we installed Eclipse and downloaded Python
and everything else,
then we're going to just simply use
SQLite3 for this.
However, you can use stuff like MySQL and
Microsoft Access and so on.
But those require different libraries
which I'm
not gonna be teaching within this course.
So if you do import SQLite3, then we have
all
that we need to actually have to work with
the database.
The SQL, SQLite3 which we're importing is
just
a library of files which is provided
within
Python which allows us to interact in the
database by having functions already made
for us.
And the way which we can see that is if
we do db is equal to, and we'll do
sqllite3.connect.
And
now inside here, we put in our name of the
file which were looking to create
the database files, so I'm just gonna call
as database.db now for save this and run
it,.
[SOUND] Sorry about that, I spelt
it wrong, SQL I, there's
not second L within there.
So it's just SQLIite3 and once we run that
and then we've
refreshed over you'll see that we have a,
now an empty database file.
So it we open the ALT we can see it's got
zero bytes within it.
And if we open it there's nothing inside
of the actual database.
So to add stuff to the database.
What we need to do, is first of all, we
need to create a table.
So we're going to do db.execute and
then within these brackets here we're
putting all
of the SQL code we are looking to execute.
So that can be anything from inserting,
deleting, updating creating, these
all manner of types of SQL commands that
you can put in.
And I'm going to be teaching you the four
basic ones, which is to insert, update,
retrieve, and delete.
And then also we'll be also using create.
But we'll only use that once.
And that is initially now.
So what we're going to do is going to
create a table called persons, or person.
And we're going to give that three fields.
So the first field which we're going to do
is called the First Name.
And that's going to be a text field.
Then we've got a second name, which is
Text Field, and then age, which is an
Integer.
And those have got to have, oops, sorry.
And then after that, we need to insert a
couple of pieces of data
into the actual tables, but that is what
we're going to cover in the next video.
For now when we run this, and open up the
database again, you'll see we now have
bytes within it.
We've got 80,192 bytes.
And, if we have an up,
Whoops sorry, we need to refresh, that we
can see
we got the SQL command is now stored
within here.
So, that is how you create a database, and
how you create a
table within Python, and you're gonna
create as many tables as you want.
And, to show you this, I'll just run it
again.
So, .execute is a is a function that's
built
into the SQLite3 library, which we import,
if we didn't import it, it wouldn't work.
Oh yes you can't also create a table over
something that already exists,
so what we need to do is, if we copy that
command operator at the top,
we can do drop table, if exists, person.
Run that again.
And you'll see that we now don't get an
error.
What's that done is it's deleted that
initial table cuz [UNKNOWN] existed, is
created it
again so we won't see any difference but
it's also created the second one now.
So now if we open that up again, and
refresh, you'll see that we have the first
table there.
And we also have a second table here.
So, you can create as many tables within
database
as you like, and you can make them
relational.
So that they relate to each other, so say
the first name here,
could be related to a second name in a
different table, for example.
And that way the data stays within sync of
each other.
So, thank you for watching and in the next
video I'll show you how to insert and
update records.
So, I'll see you soon.
[MUSIC]